

<!-- Start ./src/index.js -->

written in ECMAscript 6

Author: Norbert.Schnell@ircam.fr, Victor.Saiz@ircam.fr, Karim.Barkati@ircam.fr

# TimeEngine

Base class for time engines 
Time engines are components that generate more or less regular audio events and/or playback a media stream.
They implement one or multiple imterfaces to be synchronized by a master such as a scheduler, a transport or a play-control.
The provided interfaces are "scheduled", "transported", and "play-controlled".

In the "scheduled" interface the engine implements a method "advanceTime" that is called by the master (usually teh scheduler) 
and returns the delay until the next call of "advanceTime". The master provides the engien with a function "resetNextTime" 
to reschedule the next call to another time.

In the "transported" interface the master (usually a transport) first calls the method "syncPosition" that returns the position
of the first event generated by the engine regarding the playing direction (sign of the speed argument). Events are generated 
through the method "advancePosition" that returns the position of the next event generated through "advancePosition".

In the "speed-controlled" interface the engine is controlled by the method "syncSpeed".

For all interfaces the engine is provided with the attribute getters "currentTime" and "currentPosition" (for the case that the master 
does not implement these attributte getters, the base class provides default implementations).

## constructor()

## interface

Interface currently used

## transportStartPosition

Transport start position of the engine (handled by )

## outputNode

Output audio node

## currentTime

Get the time engine's current master time

## currentPosition

Get the time engine's current master position

Advance engine time (scheduled interface)

### Params: 

* **Number** *time* current scheduler time (based on audio time)

### Return:

* **Number** next engine time 
This function is called by the scheduler to let the engine do its work
synchronized to the scheduler time.
If the engine returns Infinity, it is not called again until it is restarted by
the scheduler or it calls resetNextPosition with a valid position.

## resetNextTime(time)

Function provided by the scheduler to reset the engine's next time

### Params: 

* **Number** *time* new engine time (immediately if not specified)

Synchronize engine to transport position (transported interface)

### Params: 

* **Number** *position* current transport position to synchronize to
* **Number** *time* current scheduler time (based on audio time)
* **Number** *speed* current speed

### Return:

* **Number** next position (given the playing direction) 
This function is called by the msater and allows the engine for synchronizing
(seeking) to the current transport position and to return its next position.
If the engine returns Infinity or -Infinity, it is not called again until it is
resynchronized by the transport or it calls resetNextPosition.

Advance engine position (transported interface)

### Params: 

* **Number** *time* current scheduler time (based on audio time)
* **Number** *position* current transport position
* **Number** *speed* current speed

### Return:

* **Number** next engine position (given the playing direction) 
This function is called by the transport to let the engine do its work
aligned to the transport's position.
If the engine returns Infinity or -Infinity, it is not called again until it is
resynchronized by the transport or it calls resetNextPosition.

## resetNextPosition(position)

Function provided by the transport to reset the next position or to request resynchronizing the engine's position

### Params: 

* **Number** *position* new engine position (will call syncPosition with the current position if not specified)

Set engine speed (speed-controlled interface)

### Params: 

* **Number** *time* current scheduler time (based on audio time)
* **Number** *position* current transport position
* **Number** *speed* current transport speed 
This function is called by the transport to propagate the transport speed to the engine.
The speed can be of any bewteen -16 and 16.
With a speed of 0 the engine is halted.

## connect(target)

Connect audio node

### Params: 

* **Object** *target* audio node

## disconnect(connection)

Disconnect audio node

### Params: 

* **Number** *connection* connection to be disconnected

## implementsScheduled()

Check whether the time engine implements the scheduled interface

## implementsTransported()

Check whether the time engine implements the transported interface

## implementsSpeedControlled()

Check whether the time engine implements the speed-controlled interface

<!-- End ./src/index.js -->

